# Objections to Swarm's pricing model

## Overview
These are my, Fabio Barone, sole and personal objections to the planned pricing model in Swarm.

Swarm, as an incentivized p2p storage network, offers to reward nodes for sharing their resources and bandwidth with the network.

The presumably latest documentation regarding incentivization can be found at "The Book of Swarm", https://www.overleaf.com/2369861545hdtphqjrhyjf


## General objections
* It will be difficult to defend a pricing model which forces people to pay to upload, but chunks can still be lost (and in an unpredictable way)
* Incentivization is optimized for profit, which obviously can only be maximized by serving as much content as possible, which in turn will mean that the strategy will be to favor serving popular content. Uploaders of less popular content might be suffering unretrievabiliy of content much quicker. This does not even take into consideration that popular content does not say anything about its quality nor its sources, which means that content availability could gravitate around such generated from big outlets, etc. This is in contrast to Swarm's mission of a censorship resistant platform for a sovereign digital society. There is even potential for manipulation of the network in favor of certain (popular) content - just by making it popular (such an attack is obviously not free though). This will be alleviated when file insurance will be available, but this won't be for Swarm 1.0, and first users will experience Swarm with 1.0, which will have repercussion for Swarm's reputation and future.
* In some ways it could be inferred that content uploaders are indirectly subsidizing popular content
* The dynamic pricing model could be eliminating or at least severely reducing the potential for any Swarm node operator to be earning crypto-currency. Only big service providers will be able to drive down the price as much as to gain competitive advantage. Also, the required monitoring and analysis of node performance will most likely not be something a regular node operator can devote much resources and interest to, de facto making this only interesting to big service providers. So far, UI/UX considerations have been of low priority for Swarm operation anyways, thus in the short term I do not expect  tools for node monitoring which would make interpretation and configuration intuitive for the laymen. 
* The dynamic pricing model may impact the stability of the network, as profitability is implicitly valued higher than stability. Requests could end up being slow and delayed due to price negotiations and re-requests for cheaper nodes. This is even without considering the potential complexity of a correct implementation.
* Optimizing for such profit thinking through dynamic pricing might result in actual detrimental UX for end users due to delays. There will be no profit to be made if end users don't perceive a good user experience using the service. Price alone is not always the best indicator.
* Swarm has had several years of hardening and stabilization of the core, introducing a new intermediate layer for price discovery and negotiation with direct manipulation of kademlia could set it back again in terms of readiness for launch.
* Many details of the current pricing model are vague, like for example introducing a price advertizing message type which can be broadcasted to the network and which can be an attack vector by flooding the network with messages, causing caos if messages would be formally correct (false price advertizing). Phrases like "[...] the rate of price messages is limited to a small finite number between any two requests. In order to prevent catastrophic connectivity changes as a result of radical price fluctuations, the rate of change might also need to be limited." are not trivial in implementation.
* Introducing a dynamic pricing model dilutes or even eliminates the potential for Swarm to represent the first real stable coin. Essentially, a honey token represents bytes. It is earned via a mutual credit based system. If there would be no dynamic pricing, then a honey token might always and for all eternity represent the same amount of bytes. This would essentially eliminate external market fluctuations from inside the network: issuing a cheque would basically mean to issue currency, and market fluctuations would be externalized as such that only when converted to another currency (through sell/buy operations on an exchange for example) are exposed to market forces. However, the same honey tokens could be used to pay for services *on swarm*, and would represent stable value always (in bytes). The minting process in such a scheme is probably not trivial either though but this constitutes a unique and exceptional opportunity to introduce a financial novelty and innovation. With this, no prices would be needed at all.
* I don't understand why Swarm needs to pitch node operators against each other. Competition is not always the best recipe. It depends what the end goal is. Driving the price as low as possible is not always in the best interest of the end user, especially if stability and performance is degraded. This is a cooperative network, where nodes share resources, and thus cooperative behavior should be rewarded, not competitive.
* Optimization (in the future possibly supported by AI and machine learning) should be focused on other properties of the network, like retrievability, stability, speed and congestion control - quality of service - which will have tangible measurable benefits for the end user, not necessarily one-dimensional pricing only. Pricing does **not** represent quality of service, and adjusting pricing for congestion control for example may not be the best strategy. IP routing optimizes on the *metric* parameter, which **does** denote quality of service, and finally is for sure a great factor for IPs success.
* Dynamic pricing will make a transparent "billing" for the end user impossible. The end user will never now how the end price he is paying came together, he will only have a final number when the file has been retrieved. It will be impossible for him also to foresee how much a certain resource use will cost upfront. Of course, one could draw the analogy of the gas cost for Ethereum transactions, which has similar behavior and is widely accepted in the crypto space. But then, Ethereum also knows a maximum gas cost which a user can attach to a transaction to denote maximum accepted costs. However, to implement this for Swarm is not currently foreseen in the paper, and would add to complexity. Also, it should be distinguished between a financial transaction and a simple resource consumption operation. If the same complexity would apply for every file download as for a financial transaction, this could trigger negative sentiments for end users.
* The pricing model is shaped for profit maximization of nodes, thus it is expected that people will try just that - to maximize profit, in ways we may not even expect today. For example, it is conceivable that people write algorithms to maximize their profits, just as today HFT (high frequency trading) is optimized for profit maximization in traditional markets, regardless of the actual real movements in the underlying physical markets.
* Self-interest and profit maximization by node operators could lead to overly competitive behavior instead of cooperation. While this might have positive consequences for the end user in terms of cheaper prices, it could have detrimental consequences in terms of stability and ultimately decentralization. If big operators would be able to slash down prices, they could effectively drive out of business smaller operators or even just the casual contributor. Apart from the inequality, this might lead to concentration of power in the hands of a couple of operators, with the potential outcome that they might be taking over large portions of the address space, negatively affecting the actual decentralization of the system.

## Final notes
* Many of these objections might have genuinely strong responses or debunking arguments
* I might be completely wrong in many if not all of the issues, these are just personal points of view which need peer review
* Even if a number of issues are partly of fully correct evaluations, constructive and mitigation strategies may be designed which counteract or eliminate the threats / problems I describe here
* This document is in no way an attempt to negatively impact the project or even attack it

