Incentive Sync Meeting Minute
===
Date: *2019-06-25*

## Participants:
* Fabio
* Marcelo
* Dani
* Diego
* Rinke
* Viktor
* Vojtech
* Tim

## Updates:
* Fabio: started to work on the SWAP protocol. There is a lot of legacy code from the first implementation on the SWAP. Will integrate this legacy code with the new Swap code this week and link to the Swap devp2p work (sign message). Probably not finished this week.
* Diego: Meeting with Viktor and Fabio - discussion about L2 technology. For now agreement to continue without integration of Raiden/Lumino but continue to investigate the integration. Deployment of the Swap contract(s) into RSK should work.
* Marcelo: implementing threshold for SWAP - payment & disconnect. There is a PR already. Created [#1506](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/issues/1506) to discuss the threshold handling during message processing. Will pick next task this week from https://github.com/orgs/ethersphere/projects/9. Call to look at the unanswered questions related to incentives at https://docs.google.com/document/d/1H09c1aTViwi5axKn5Ff9-fDbdCAJHaLQq8xpJ9n23rA/edit#heading=h.x9jy4a42vujf.
* Rinke: spends this week on getting up to speed; going over all research SWARM, Golang development. Will start next week. Almost finished with Radical market book
* Vojtech: communicating, conferences: shown how Swarm works. Wants to write a blog post. Development tasks not addressed yet, this week either. IPFS conference this weekend.
* Viktor: low hanging fruit: ERC20 integration in the contract, liaise with Ralph. Suggested treating I/O errors when reading SWAP balances as fatal ones, instead of dropping the peer in question. Although minor, an issue will be created for this. 

## Discussion

### Capabilities of nodes
Links to adaptive nodes
Dani: 3 different 'type' of users:
    * Mobile device users; Only use Swarm, uses up money - need to be topped up.
    * Desktop device users; Users Swarm, but sometimes also contributes to the network - need to be topped up, can also earn money
    * "Professional" (rented servers); Make money on SWARM.

Different modes of incentivization:
* Swap accounting
* Postage stamps

Upload: against your balance, postage stamps
Download: against your balance, Swap for retrieval, top up account

### Dropping vs ignoring peers
* Fabio: Suggestion to drop peers for now rather than ignoring them.

### I/O Error
* Treat it as fatal error, the node must go offline
