Tracks sync 29.07.2019
=======
Please provide your written feedback to give an update about the current status of the track as well as writing down blockers and risks which need to be addressed from other dependent tracks.

Epics / User Stories
General Updates of the Track
Blockers and Resource planning

Updates structure
Communication Track (Louis, Vojtech)
Core Track (Elad, Viktor)
Incentive Track (Fabio)
Network Testing Framework (Rafael)
Research (Daniel)

Other
Network-Testing 
Release Planning
Documentation

## Core Track (Anton, Viktor)
- Progress on the Push-sync. PSS fixes (Push-sync is dependent on PSS) - some of them merged.
    - https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1580
    - https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1392 (in progress ; was on hold until today)
- Pull-sync - started running smoketests, so far good results
    - https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1538 (in progress)
- Simulation framework - bit more automated tests especially for Push-sync
- Pinning content
    - https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1509 (in review)
- No update on Kademlia improvements
- 
- Download improvements - Viktor to code a asynchronous lookahead buffer to improve the download functionality https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/issues/1524


## Communication Track (Louis, Vojtech)

- adaptive node capabilities code rewriting https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1619
- milestones with status changes; deliverables are now full spex of swarm node by end of year, draft outline of milestones:
> > This includes SWIPS for:
> >    - SWIP: General P2P Specc (P2P Communication assumptions)
> >    - SWIP: The HIVE Protocol (Wire-Protocol Specification + Bootstraping Strategy)
> >    - SWIP: Kadelmia + Routing
> >    - SWIP: PSS Wire Spec
> >    - SWIP: PSS API Specification

> > **Milestone 2:** Adaptive nodes (client and server) specs
> >> - Including light node connection strategy

> >> **Milestone 3:** BZZ spec (possibly divided into get and post phases)
> >    - SWIP: Retrieval Wire-specification / Fetching
> >    - SWIP: Stream Protocol
> >    - SWIP: Syncing Protocol
> >    - SWIP: HTTP Interface

> >> **Milestone 4:** BZZ incentives spec
> >    - SWIP: SWAP (P2P Accounting)
- considering rewiring pss, making crypto/handshakes pluggable, move whisper out to "plug" or eliminate
- pss spec reviewed by vik, implemented in PR, waiting for confirmation - also awaiting feedback from iovlabs and status on the textx
- Comm track will be split up in Comm track and Adaptive nodes track from now on (louis heads both)

## Incentive Track (Fabio, Vojtech)
- scheduled to promote the open PR from `incentives` to `master` on Friday, delayed due to bugs
- last PR to `incentives` branch, good to go after
- blockers:
    - how to run simulation for tests (blockchain simulation)
- number of [SWIPs](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U7lMvB7ySYaiynrXd0me6NUwWeG1r2T57pi9E46O5kM/edit?usp=sharing) to be shared this week

## Network Testing Framework (Rafael)

- Initial PR merged [#1555](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1555)
- Retry mechanism for Exec Adapter when there is a UDP port collision [#1616](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm/pull/1616). Thanks @nonsense
    - We should get rid of go-ethereum p2p discovery and the UDP server altogether, but this is a bigger effort.
- Next steps: Refactor "upload and sync" smoke test to also work with the framework.

## Research (Viktor)
- trying to get to Dani will write the two promised

## Ethereum state on Swarm (Viktor)
- Moving ahead, Viktor is implementing the Phase 1 & 2
- This track got some charitable donors, so we have funding to put resources on this track
- Most likely will work with Epic Labs to add resources to the team soon

## Business (Viktor)
- work to move ahead with Swarm foundation
- consolidating collaboration with Status.im, mainly focuses on writing the specs and completing them by the end of December

## Feedback
- Louis: the Communications track is refering to both communications and adaptive nodes which is confusing, maybe those should be split into tracks both in the hands of Luis. Encouragement to split these two
- Marcelo: how to handle the comments from reviewers on the `incentives` PR? Consensus: make the commit changes directly to the `incentives` branch. 
- How to handle big PRs?
    - Maybe we can split them into chain of PRs with rebasing in the middle. Danger with splitting is that sometimes the code in PR is not even used.
    - Maybe setting up maximal size per PR?
    - Conclusion => lets aim for digestable size of PRs
- Suggestion for the `incentives` branch. Split into 3 PRs:
    - PR removing legacy code
    - PR adding autogenerated code from smart contracts
    - PR with all the new code
